Durban - A Durban father has spoken of his horror at seeing three knife-wielding robbers hovering over his bed where he, his wife and 19-month-old son were sleeping.Dane Madurai, 32, a solutions architect, and his wife Elaine were terrorised in their Sunningdale home for almost an hour in the early hours of Friday.But it did not end there, as Dane was then taken on a terror ride by the robbers. We are doing home renovations and had temporarily had the security gates removed. I think this is how they accessed the home. Dane said: I don t know how long they had spent ransacking the home, but when the lights came on I suddenly woke up and all I heard was Don t move, don t move . They then asked me to get out of bed and began demanding cash, jewellery and electronic items. But they didn t want anything else besides money because they were demanding wallets. Dane s son was awoken with the noise and began crying loudly. My wife tried to calm him. I decided to comply with the robbers and give them whatever they asked for. They wanted laptops and other electronic goods. They accessed my vehicle and began loading everything into my car. His wife and son were locked in the en suite bathroom, he was locked in the main bathroom. They tied my hands with an HDMI (digital connection) cable and warned me not to come out of the bathroom as they would kill us all. He said after 30 minutes, They opened the door and told me I was coming with them. They pushed me into the back seat of my car. Two of the three robbers jumped into the driver and passenger seat while one got away on foot. They struggled to start the car and use the handbrake button and I had to assist them. Dane said his free-standing house was next to the N2 and the hijackers had asked him for directions to the highway, where they fetched the third robber. After driving another 300m I was told to jump out of the car as they sped away. There I was, standing in my boxer shorts at 3am on the N2 trying to flag down vehicles, but then I heard my neighbour screaming and I asked him if my wife and son were okay. He said the police arrived soon after that.Dane said he had gone on his hands and knees in the middle of the road and thanked God. It s hard to describe what you go through. Maybe anger and fear. It s one thing to have someone break into your home when you are not there, but when you are there, it is a terrifying feeling and there is nothing you can do about it. I still get goosebumps thinking about it. Captain Raymond Deokaran from Durban North SAPS said police had found the victim within minutes. He confirmed that the vehicle, a Mazda CX5, had been recovered the same day.Post