Durban - A teacher who allegedly hit a pupil before tossing his religious skullcap outside his classroom, saying Muslims were terrorists, has apologised.The teacher, from Apex Primary School in Lenasia, has, however, been issued with a temporary precautionary transfer pending the outcome of an investigation. The Jamiatul Ulama South Africa (Jusa) has denounced his actions. The organisation s secretary general, Moulana Ebrahim Bham, said they were dismayed that teachers still harboured notions of hate. While we acknowledge and take into account the teacher s regret in good faith, it is a matter of alarm and dismay that in this day of a new South Africa, we still have teachers who harbour notions of hate and seem to remain callously insensitive to the religious beliefs of learners in their charge, said Bham. He said the incident smacked of Islamophobia. He added that the teacher had co-operated with Jusa officials in Lenasia, through whom he had offered an apology to the Muslim community. The teacher has expressed remorse and volunteered to undergo an awareness programme to learn more about Islam. Moulana Suliman Bayat, secretary of the Lenasia branch of Jusa, said the incident happened last Monday. The teacher allegedly hit the pupil and took his topi off his head and threw it out the classroom. He then allegedly said You Muslims are terrorists and you should not wear a topi in class . Bayat said he did not know why the teacher had allegedly hit the pupil. It is all part of an ongoing investigation. He said he had heard about the incident over social media last Wednesday night and together with a colleague from Jusa and a community member, went to the school the next day. By then, he said, the principal had already notified the district director from the Gauteng Department of Education. The principal told us there was some truth in what we saw on social media and we are glad knowing he acted so swiftly. We then met with the teacher and he was remorseful. He apologised profusely and said he would never say anything like that again. We advised him he could not make erratic comments without knowing what Islam propagated. Bayat added that the teacher s skewed view on Islam was unjust. A local imam met with him to explain what Islam was, so he would have a better understanding. He was also told about the importance of religious tolerance, especially being a teacher and working with impressionable youths. He said Jusa was in talks with the department to introduce a programme at schools, creating awareness on Islam. From what we have seen, it is needed and it would be beneficial not only at schools but to the community. He said there was no policy that prevented male pupils from wearing topis. A district official from the education department said the teacher was issued with a temporary precautionary transfer.This means he is reporting to the district office every day. For the department of education, social cohesion is everything. This is what we are striving to achieve. She said that on Friday, after the alleged incident, the department hosted a social cohesion programme.The teacher from Apex Primary School wrote this letter to the 'Lenasia Community of Muslim of the Islamic Faith', apologising for his Islamophobic comments.Post