Durban - A Westville North man who survived a 4am hail of bullets inside his home says he was told by police that if he had shot any of the gunmen who broke in, he could have landed in hot water. I am disgusted by this; they even checked me for gunpowder, said homeowner Mark Aaron.The businessman and his wife, Kanchan Aaron, a financial consultant, were attacked in their home in a gated complex in Scone Place, Westville North last Tuesday.Mark said he was asleep when a neighbour called, informing him of a robbery at another neighbour s home in the complex. That was at around 3am and I decided to go and help. Three guys had tried to enter my neighbour s home and he fought them off. They hurt him in his face and eyes but didn t take anything. The police and armed security were unable to apprehend the suspects. Mark said he returned home at around 4am. Kanchan was awake by then. She decided that she was not going back to bed and she decided to exercise on the treadmill. When I came into the house I closed the front gate, a slam-lock gate, and kept the door slightly ajar because our cat went outside. In the next instant I heard a gunshot close by, and I told my wife to run into the bedroom, and I ran for my firearm. Mark said when he returned to the front passage, one of the balaclava-clad robbers had brazenly pushed opened the front door and was staring him in the face, and began firing shots in his direction. I was hiding behind a pillar in the passage and returned fire. One of the bullets landed so close to me, the gunpowder was all over me. It was like a hail of bullets. He fired five shots and I managed to get two in. Mark said the robbers surrounded his property. I could hear three of them trying to break the patio door to gain access into the home. It was frightening. Kanchan said she hid in the bedroom fearing for their lives and called the police and armed security company. We also have a neighbourhood WhatsApp group and I sent out a message to our neighbours. Mark said the robbers continued firing shots, trying to enter their home. Despite the blaring alarms from my home and the various neighbours, and the fact that police were just at my neighbour s home, it did not deter them. They were very arrogant and callous. The one guy had his hand through my gate. Mark said they only fled once police arrived. The entire incident took about five minutes, but having someone shoot at you for two minutes seems like the longest time. It could have gone any way and I m grateful that we are safe. Mark said that when police were taking his statement, they told him that if he had shot anyone he would have been in trouble. I was defending myself in my own home, he said. Up until today we have had no feedback on the case. He suspects that the home invasions were all linked.The couple have been living in the complex, which has 17 units and 24 hour security, for the past 10 years. Three years ago the robberies started. Items stolen included television sets and patio chairs. There were also many attempted break ins, he said. We moved into a complex thinking that it would be safer but we are living in fear. Kanchan, who has not slept well since the incident, said she planned to go for trauma counselling.Police spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Shooz Magudulela said charges of attempted murder and armed robbery were being investigated by Westville SAPS.Clarifying what Mark said police had told him, another SAPS spokesman, Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane, said a victim had a right to shoot back if his or her life or property was in imminent danger. But a case will still be opened for further investigation and all the merits of the case will be considered. He said it was important to note that a person cannot shoot anyone running away from him or her. They have to be confronting you and your life has to be in imminent danger. There have been several violent home invasions in Westville North in recent months.In May, Jayshree Ramdeen, the chief executive and medical manager of the KwaDabeka Community Health Centre, was at home with both her daughters watching television when four armed men stormed in.The robbers assaulted one of her daughters and stole three Mercedes Benz vehicles, wallets, cellphones and house and gate keys.Earlier this month, homeowner Gary Mackay died after being shot in his abdomen.The three intruders fled with items from the house.According to the recent police crime statistics hijackings and house robberies in Westville had increased marginally during 2015/16 compared to 2014/15.The number of house robberies had increased from 69 to 100, and hijackings from 19 to 30.POST