Durban - A Chatsworth woman watched helplessly as her brother was assaulted and kidnapped after he came to her aid during a home invasion on Sunday morning. Kriba Govender, 55, a mechanic from Arena Park, was found dead a day later. His family believes he knew his killer.Traumatised by the incident, his sister Premilla Govender, who lived with him, has been admitted to hospital as police hunt the culprit.Police spokeswoman Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said it is alleged the suspect had gone to the Govenders house with two unknown women. They demanded entry into the property and when denied entry they broke down the door of the house. Here he assaulted the deceased s sister and robbed her of her cellular phone and cash. She said that on hearing his sister s screams Kriba went to help her and was also assaulted. The suspect overpowered both victims and then tied Govender up with cable ties before dragging him away. His body was found the next day near the Chatsworth Stadium with gunshot wounds to the head. The siblings brother, Yegan Govender, described the murder as callous and senseless . Minutes after the incident we received a call from my brother s friend informing us what had happened. I am in Gauteng but we sought help from police in Durban and other friends and relatives started searching for him. He said they received a call the next day informing them that his brother s body had been found. We were in shock. My brother was not married. He was a kind-hearted man who was helpful and respected in the community. Yegan said the family wanted justice. My sister is so traumatised by the ordeal and she has since been admitted to hospital. We are praying that she recovers. Kriba s life has been snatched from him and we don t even know why. This man (the suspect) was known to my brother and for what he has done he should not be allowed to roam the streets. He said his brother was cremated at the Mobeni Heights Crematorium. A case of murder is being investigated by the Chatsworth police. Anyone with information is urged to contact investigating officer Constable Soobramoney on 0314514314 or 0760618302, or Crime Stop on 0860010111.POST